SPEAKER: The pipe name
could not be found.
You may encounter
this error when
you reference a pipe
in a template that
has either not been imported
or not been named properly.
Just like components
and directives,
pipes must be declared or
imported in an NgModule.
In addition, when
referenced in a template,
the name must match
the name specified
in the pipe decorator.
Angular uses the
name in a template
to determine which
pipe to execute.
That means every pipe
must have a name.
And the name must be
unique to that NgModule.
Let's start by taking a look
at a simple reproduction
and solution.
Then we'll review
pipes in greater detail
to understand why
this error occurs.
In our code base, you'll
notice we're referencing a pipe
with the name of truncate.
However, the red underline in VS
Code is telling us that Angular
cannot find a pipe
with that name.
If you don't see the
error in VS Code,
you might also find
it in the terminal
or in the browser console.
In either case, the stack
trace will direct you
to the template file that
is causing the issue.
In order to fix the
issue, we'll first
want to verify that
the pipe is available
in the appropriate NgModule.
In this case, we're
attempting to use
the pipe in the app module.
And because it's a
custom pipe that we're
developing in this
project, it needs
to be in the declarations
for this module,
just like a component
or directive.
Now, in other
cases, the pipe may
be exported by a
different module
or exported from a third
party package, in which case
you may need to import
that module as opposed
to adding the pipe
to the declarations.
At this point, we have
verified that the pipe is
available in the NgModule, but
we're still getting the error.
The next piece of code to check
is the pipe definition itself
and specifically, the name
option in the pipe decorator.
Notice here how the
pipe name is shortened.
But in the template, it's
referenced as truncate.
The issue can be
resolved by fixing
the mismatch-- either change the
name referenced in the template
or change the name parameter
in the pipe decorator.
That'll fix the issue.
And it brings up
a good opportunity
to point out a
best practice that
will prevent issues
like this from happening
in the first place.
When you create a
pipe in Angular,
it's conventional for the pipe
name to match the file name
where it's defined.
Notice how the pipe name is
truncate and the file name
is truncate.pipe.ts.
When using the Angular
CLI, this best practice
will be applied automatically.
Now that we know how
to resolve this issue,
let's do a quick
review of how pipes
work in Angular to understand
why this issue happens
in the first place.
The role of a pipe in Angular
is to transform values
in the template.
And unlike regular method calls,
Angular can optimize pipes.
They are especially useful
when you have an expression
or value, like a
number, that needs
to be reformatted as a currency,
decimal, or some other format.
Angular has a handful
of built-in pipes,
or you can create
your own from scratch.
When Angular encounters
the pipe character
in a template expression,
it uses the name
of the pipe to determine
which class has the function
to execute.
If an invalid name
is provided, Angular
has no way to find the
corresponding function.
But when it is valid,
it will match that name
to the pipe class,
which implements
a pipe transform function.
The transform function
takes the value provided
from the template, along with
any additional arguments,
then returns a new value,
which is ultimately
shown to the end user.
Let's go ahead and recap.
When you encounter the
pipe name not found error,
it means a pipe
has been referenced
in a template that has either
not been imported or not been
named properly.
Resolve the issue
by first verifying
that the pipe has been
imported or declared
in the appropriate NgModule.
If the issue remains,
check the pipe definition
itself to verify that the
name matches the name declared
in the template.
For additional
examples and details,
reference the official
Angular documentation.